Ex1

You have two identical eggs and access to a 100-story building.
You need to find the highest floor from which an egg will not break if dropped.
What is the minimum number of drops you need to make in order to find this floor?

The solution involves using a binary search approach to reduce the number of drops required. Here is one possible solution:

Start by dropping one egg from the 50th floor.

If the egg breaks, you know that the highest floor the egg can survive a drop from is somewhere between the 1st and 49th floors.
You can then drop the second egg starting from the 1st floor and working your way up until it breaks, which will take a maximum of 49 drops.
This gives a total of 50 drops.

If the egg does not break when dropped from the 50th floor, you know that the highest floor
the egg can survive a drop from is somewhere between the 51st and 100th floors.
You can then drop the second egg starting from the 51st floor and working your way up until it breaks,
which will take a maximum of 49 drops. This gives a total of 51 drops.
In either case, the worst-case number of drops required is 51



Ex2

You have a bag of coins, some of which are counterfeit and weigh slightly less than real coins.
You have a balance scale, and can only use it three times.
What is the minimum number of coins you need to weigh in order to identify all the counterfeit coins?


Weigh an equal number of coins on both sides of the balance scale in the first weighing.
If the scale tips, we know that the bag contains at least one counterfeit coin.
Otherwise, all the coins in the bag are genuine, and we can stop.

If the scale tipped in the first weighing, we can use the second weighing to identify one counterfeit coin.
Split the coins into three equal groups and weigh two of them against each other.
If the scale tips, we know that one of the two weighed groups contains a counterfeit coin, and we can move on to step 3.
If the scale does not tip, we know that the remaining group contains a counterfeit coin,
and we can identify it by weighing one of its coins against a genuine coin from one of the other groups.

If we have identified one counterfeit coin in step 2,
we can use the third weighing to identify all the remaining counterfeit coins.
Split the remaining coins into three equal groups and weigh two of them against each other.
If the scale tips, we know that one of the two weighed groups contains a counterfeit coin,
and we can use the same process as in step 2 to identify it. If the scale does not tip,
we know that the remaining group contains all the remaining counterfeit coins,
and we can identify them by weighing one of their coins against a genuine coin from one of the other groups.


Ex3

Here is one way to measure exactly 15 minutes using the two hourglasses:

Start both hourglasses at the same time.
Wait for the 7-minute hourglass to finish running out of sand.
When the 7-minute hourglass is finished, flip it over to start the timer again.
Continue letting the sand run out of the 11-minute hourglass.
When the 11-minute hourglass finishes running out of sand, flip the 7-minute hourglass over again.
Let the 7-minute hourglass run until it is empty, and at this point exactly 15 minutes will have passed since you started.